{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1043{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Urban population (% of total)\tab\par
Urban population refers to people living in urban areas as defined by national statistical offices. The data are collected and smoothed by United Nations Population Division.\par
Urban population\tab\par
Urban population refers to people living in urban areas as defined by national statistical offices. It is calculated using World Bank population estimates and urban ratios from the United Nations World Urbanization Prospects. Aggregation of urban and rural population may not add up to total population because of different country coverages.\par
Urban population growth (annual %)\tab\par
Urban population refers to people living in urban areas as defined by national statistical offices. It is calculated using World Bank population estimates and urban ratios from the United Nations World Urbanization Prospects.\par
Population, total\tab\par
Total population is based on the de facto definition of population, which counts all residents regardless of legal status or citizenship. The values shown are midyear estimates.\par
Population growth (annual %)\tab\par
Annual population growth rate for year t is the exponential rate of growth of midyear population from year t-1 to t, expressed as a percentage . Population is based on the de facto definition of population, which counts all residents regardless of legal status or citizenship.\par
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90 a day (2011 PPP) (% of population)\tab\par
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.90 a day is the percentage of the population living on less than $1.90 a day at 2011 international prices. As a result of revisions in PPP exchange rates, poverty rates for individual countries cannot be compared with poverty rates reported in earlier editions.\par
Prevalence of underweight, weight for age (% of children under 5)\tab\par
Prevalence of underweight children is the percentage of children under age 5 whose weight for age is more than two standard deviations below the median for the international reference population ages 0-59 months. The data are based on the WHO's new child growth standards released in 2006.\par
Improved sanitation facilities (% of population with access)\tab\par
Access to improved sanitation facilities refers to the percentage of the population using improved sanitation facilities. Improved sanitation facilities are likely to ensure hygienic separation of human excreta from human contact. They include flush/pour flush (to piped sewer system, septic tank, pit latrine), ventilated improved pit (VIP) latrine, pit latrine with slab, and composting toilet.\par
Community health workers (per 1,000 people)\tab\par
Community health workers include various types of community health aides, many with country-specific occupational titles such as community health officers, community health-education workers, family health workers, lady health visitors and health extension package workers.\par
Improved water source (% of population with access)\tab\par
Access to an improved water source refers to the percentage of the population using an improved drinking water source. The improved drinking water source includes piped water on premises (piped household water connection located inside the user\rquote s dwelling, plot or yard), and other improved drinking water sources (public taps or standpipes, tube wells or boreholes, protected dug wells, protected springs, and rainwater collection).\par
Improved water source, urban (% of urban population with access)\tab\par
Access to an improved water source, urban, refers to the percentage of the urban population using an improved drinking water source. The improved drinking water source includes piped water on premises (piped household water connection located inside the user\rquote s dwelling, plot or yard), and other improved drinking water sources (public taps or standpipes, tube wells or boreholes, protected dug wells, protected springs, and rainwater collection).\par
Improved water source, rural (% of rural population with access)\tab\par
Access to an improved water source, rural, refers to the percentage of the rural population using an improved drinking water source. The improved drinking water source includes piped water on premises (piped household water connection located inside the user\rquote s dwelling, plot or yard), and other improved drinking water sources (public taps or standpipes, tube wells or boreholes, protected dug wells, protected springs, and rainwater collection).\par
Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)\tab\par
Under-five mortality rate is the probability per 1,000 that a newborn baby will die before reaching age five, if subject to age-specific mortality rates of the specified year.\par
Primary completion rate, total (% of relevant age group)\tab\par
Primary completion rate, or gross intake ratio to the last grade of primary education, is the number of new entrants (enrollments minus repeaters) in the last grade of primary education, regardless of age, divided by the population at the entrance age for the last grade of primary education. Data limitations preclude adjusting for students who drop out during the final year of primary education.\par
School enrollment, primary and secondary (gross), gender parity index (GPI)\tab\par
Gender parity index for gross enrollment ratio in primary and secondary education is the ratio of girls to boys enrolled at primary and secondary levels in public and private schools.\par
Agriculture, value added (% of GDP)\tab\par
Agriculture corresponds to ISIC divisions 1-5 and includes forestry, hunting, and fishing, as well as cultivation of crops and livestock production. Value added is the net output of a sector after adding up all outputs and subtracting intermediate inputs. It is calculated without making deductions for depreciation of fabricated assets or depletion and degradation of natural resources. The origin of value added is determined by the International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC), revision 3. Note: For VAB countries, gross value added at factor cost is used as the denominator.\par
CPIA public sector management and institutions cluster average (1=low to 6=high)\tab\par
The public sector management and institutions cluster includes property rights and rule-based governance, quality of budgetary and financial management, efficiency of revenue mobilization, quality of public administration, and transparency, accountability, and corruption in the public sector.\par
Ease of doing business index (1=most business-friendly regulations)\tab\par
Ease of doing business ranks economies from 1 to 190, with first place being the best. A high ranking (a low numerical rank) means that the regulatory environment is conducive to business operation. The index averages the country's percentile rankings on 10 topics covered in the World Bank's Doing Business. The ranking on each topic is the simple average of the percentile rankings on its component indicators.\par
Terrestrial and marine protected areas (% of total territorial area)\tab\par
Terrestrial protected areas are totally or partially protected areas of at least 1,000 hectares that are designated by national authorities as scientific reserves with limited public access, national parks, natural monuments, nature reserves or wildlife sanctuaries, protected landscapes, and areas managed mainly for sustainable use. Marine protected areas are areas of intertidal or subtidal terrain--and overlying water and associated flora and fauna and historical and cultural features--that have been reserved by law or other effective means to protect part or all of the enclosed environment. Sites protected under local or provincial law are excluded.\par
Marine protected areas (% of territorial waters)\tab\par
Marine protected areas are areas of intertidal or subtidal terrain--and overlying water and associated flora and fauna and historical and cultural features--that have been reserved by law or other effective means to protect part or all of the enclosed environment.\par
Terrestrial protected areas (% of total land area)\tab\par
Terrestrial protected areas are totally or partially protected areas of at least 1,000 hectares that are designated by national authorities as scientific reserves with limited public access, national parks, natural monuments, nature reserves or wildlife sanctuaries, protected landscapes, and areas managed mainly for sustainable use. Marine areas, unclassified areas, littoral (intertidal) areas, and sites protected under local or provincial law are excluded.\par
Annual freshwater withdrawals, total (% of internal resources)\tab\par
Annual freshwater withdrawals refer to total water withdrawals, not counting evaporation losses from storage basins. Withdrawals also include water from desalination plants in countries where they are a significant source. Withdrawals can exceed 100 percent of total renewable resources where extraction from nonrenewable aquifers or desalination plants is considerable or where there is significant water reuse. Withdrawals for agriculture and industry are total withdrawals for irrigation and livestock production and for direct industrial use (including withdrawals for cooling thermoelectric plants). Withdrawals for domestic uses include drinking water, municipal use or supply, and use for public services, commercial establishments, and homes. Data are for the most recent year available for 1987-2002.\par
Annual freshwater withdrawals, total (billion cubic meters)\tab\par
Annual freshwater withdrawals refer to total water withdrawals, not counting evaporation losses from storage basins. Withdrawals also include water from desalination plants in countries where they are a significant source. Withdrawals can exceed 100 percent of total renewable resources where extraction from nonrenewable aquifers or desalination plants is considerable or where there is significant water reuse. Withdrawals for agriculture and industry are total withdrawals for irrigation and livestock production and for direct industrial use (including withdrawals for cooling thermoelectric plants). Withdrawals for domestic uses include drinking water, municipal use or supply, and use for public services, commercial establishments, and homes. Data are for the most recent year available for 1987-2002.\par
Population in urban agglomerations of more than 1 million (% of total population)\par
Population in urban agglomerations of more than one million is the percentage of a country's population living in metropolitan areas that in 2000 had a population of more than one million people.\par
Population living in areas where elevation is below 5 meters (% of total population)\par
Population below 5m is the percentage of the total population living in areas where the elevation is 5 meters or less.\par
Urban population living in areas where elevation is below 5 meters (% of total population\par
Urban population below 5m is the percentage of the total population, living in areas where the elevation is 5 meters or less.\par
Rural population living in areas where elevation is below 5 meters (% of total population)\par
Rural population below 5m is the percentage of the total population, living in areas where the elevation is 5 meters or less.\par
Droughts, floods, extreme temperatures (% of population, average 1990-2009)\tab\par
Droughts, floods and extreme temperatures is the annual average percentage of the population that is affected by natural disasters classified as either droughts, floods, or extreme temperature events. A drought is an extended period of time characterized by a deficiency in a region's water supply that is the result of constantly below average precipitation. A drought can lead to losses to agriculture, affect inland navigation and hydropower plants, and cause a lack of drinking water and famine. A flood is a significant rise of water level in a stream, lake, reservoir or coastal region. Extreme temperature events are either cold waves or heat waves. A cold wave can be both a prolonged period of excessively cold weather and the sudden invasion of very cold air over a large area. Along with frost it can cause damage to agriculture, infrastructure, and property. A heat wave is a prolonged period of excessively hot and sometimes also humid weather relative to normal climate patterns of a certain region. Population affected is the number of people injured, left homeless or requiring immediate assistance during a period of emergency resulting from a natural disaster; it can also include displaced or evacuated people. Average percentage of population affected is calculated by dividing the sum of total affected for the period stated by the sum of the annual population figures for the period stated.\par
GHG net emissions/removals by LUCF (Mt of CO2 equivalent)\tab\par
GHG net emissions/removals by LUCF refers to changes in atmospheric levels of all greenhouse gases attributable to forest and land-use change activities, including but not limited to (1) emissions and removals of CO2 from decreases or increases in biomass stocks due to forest management, logging, fuelwood collection, etc.; (2) conversion of existing forests and natural grasslands to other land uses; (3) removal of CO2 from the abandonment of formerly managed lands (e.g. croplands and pastures); and (4) emissions and removals of CO2 in soil associated with land-use change and management. For Annex-I countries under the UNFCCC, these data are drawn from the annual GHG inventories submitted to the UNFCCC by each country; for non-Annex-I countries, data are drawn from the most recently submitted National Communication where available. Because of differences in reporting years and methodologies, these data are not generally considered comparable across countries. Data are in million metric tons.\par
Disaster risk reduction progress score (1-5 scale; 5=best)\tab Disaster risk reduction progress score is an average of self-assessment scores, ranging from 1 to 5, submitted by countries under Priority 1 of the Hyogo Framework National Progress Reports. The Hyogo Framework is a global blueprint for disaster risk reduction efforts that was adopted by 168 countries in 2005. Assessments of "Priority 1" include four indicators that reflect the degree to which countries have prioritized disaster risk reduction and the strengthening of relevant institutions.\par
SF6 gas emissions (thousand metric tons of CO2 equivalent)\tab Sulfur hexafluoride is used largely to insulate high-voltage electric power equipment.\par
PFC gas emissions (thousand metric tons of CO2 equivalent)\tab Perfluorocarbons, used as a replacement for chlorofluorocarbons in manufacturing semiconductors, are a byproduct of aluminum smelting and uranium enrichment.\par
Nitrous oxide emissions (% change from 1990)\tab Nitrous oxide emissions are emissions from agricultural biomass burning, industrial activities, and livestock management. Each year of data shows the percentage change to that year from 1990.\par
Nitrous oxide emissions (thousand metric tons of CO2 equivalent)\tab Nitrous oxide emissions are emissions from agricultural biomass burning, industrial activities, and livestock management.\par
Methane emissions (% change from 1990)\tab Methane emissions are those stemming from human activities such as agriculture and from industrial methane production. Each year of data shows the percentage change to that year from 1990.\par
Methane emissions (kt of CO2 equivalent)\tab Methane emissions are those stemming from human activities such as agriculture and from industrial methane production.\par
HFC gas emissions (thousand metric tons of CO2 equivalent)\tab Hydrofluorocarbons, used as a replacement for chlorofluorocarbons, are used mainly in refrigeration and semiconductor manufacturing.\par
Total greenhouse gas emissions (% change from 1990)\tab Total greenhouse gas emissions are composed of CO2 totals excluding short-cycle biomass burning (such as agricultural waste burning and Savannah burning) but including other biomass burning (such as forest fires, post-burn decay, peat fires and decay of drained peatlands), all anthropogenic CH4 sources, N2O sources and F-gases (HFCs, PFCs and SF6). Each year of data shows the percentage change to that year from 1990.\par
Total greenhouse gas emissions (kt of CO2 equivalent)\tab Total greenhouse gas emissions in kt of CO2 equivalent are composed of CO2 totals excluding short-cycle biomass burning (such as agricultural waste burning and Savannah burning) but including other biomass burning (such as forest fires, post-burn decay, peat fires and decay of drained peatlands), all anthropogenic CH4 sources, N2O sources and F-gases (HFCs, PFCs and SF6).\par
Other greenhouse gas emissions (% change from 1990)\tab Other greenhouse gas emissions are by-product emissions of hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, and sulfur hexafluoride. Each year of data shows the percentage change to that year from 1990.\par
Other greenhouse gas emissions, HFC, PFC and SF6 (thousand metric tons of CO2 equivalent)\tab Other greenhouse gas emissions are by-product emissions of hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, and sulfur hexafluoride.\par
CO2 emissions from solid fuel consumption (% of total)\tab Carbon dioxide emissions from solid fuel consumption refer mainly to emissions from use of coal as an energy source.\par
CO2 emissions from solid fuel consumption (kt) \tab Carbon dioxide emissions from solid fuel consumption refer mainly to emissions from use of coal as an energy source.\par
CO2 emissions (kg per 2011 PPP $ of GDP)\tab Carbon dioxide emissions are those stemming from the burning of fossil fuels and the manufacture of cement. They include carbon dioxide produced during consumption of solid, liquid, and gas fuels and gas flaring.\par
CO2 emissions (kg per PPP $ of GDP)\tab Carbon dioxide emissions are those stemming from the burning of fossil fuels and the manufacture of cement. They include carbon dioxide produced during consumption of solid, liquid, and gas fuels and gas flaring.\par
CO2 emissions (metric tons per capita)\tab Carbon dioxide emissions are those stemming from the burning of fossil fuels and the manufacture of cement. They include carbon dioxide produced during consumption of solid, liquid, and gas fuels and gas flaring.\par
CO2 emissions from liquid fuel consumption (% of total) \tab Carbon dioxide emissions from liquid fuel consumption refer mainly to emissions from use of petroleum-derived fuels as an energy source.\par
CO2 emissions from liquid fuel consumption (kt) \tab Carbon dioxide emissions from liquid fuel consumption refer mainly to emissions from use of petroleum-derived fuels as an energy source.\par
CO2 emissions (kt)\tab Carbon dioxide emissions are those stemming from the burning of fossil fuels and the manufacture of cement. They include carbon dioxide produced during consumption of solid, liquid, and gas fuels and gas flaring.\par
CO2 emissions (kg per 2010 US$ of GDP)\tab Carbon dioxide emissions are those stemming from the burning of fossil fuels and the manufacture of cement. They include carbon dioxide produced during consumption of solid, liquid, and gas fuels and gas flaring.\par
CO2 emissions from gaseous fuel consumption (% of total) \tab Carbon dioxide emissions from liquid fuel consumption refer mainly to emissions from use of natural gas as an energy source.\par
CO2 emissions from gaseous fuel consumption (kt) \tab Carbon dioxide emissions from liquid fuel consumption refer mainly to emissions from use of natural gas as an energy source.\par
CO2 intensity (kg per kg of oil equivalent energy use)\tab Carbon dioxide emissions from solid fuel consumption refer mainly to emissions from use of coal as an energy source.\par
Energy use (kg of oil equivalent per capita)\tab Energy use refers to use of primary energy before transformation to other end-use fuels, which is equal to indigenous production plus imports and stock changes, minus exports and fuels supplied to ships and aircraft engaged in international transport.\par
Electric power consumption (kWh per capita)\tab Electric power consumption measures the production of power plants and combined heat and power plants less transmission, distribution, and transformation losses and own use by heat and power plants.\par
Energy use (kg of oil equivalent) per $1,000 GDP (constant 2011 PPP)\tab Energy use per PPP GDP is the kilogram of oil equivalent of energy use per constant PPP GDP. Energy use refers to use of primary energy before transformation to other end-use fuels, which is equal to indigenous production plus imports and stock changes, minus exports and fuels supplied to ships and aircraft engaged in international transport. PPP GDP is gross domestic product converted to 2011 constant international dollars using purchasing power parity rates. An international dollar has the same purchasing power over GDP as a U.S. dollar has in the United States.\par
Renewable energy consumption (% of total final energy consumption)\tab Renewable energy consumption is the share of renewables energy in total final energy consumption.\par
Electricity production from renewable sources, excluding hydroelectric (% of total)\tab Electricity production from renewable sources, excluding hydroelectric, includes geothermal, solar, tides, wind, biomass, and biofuels.\par
Electricity production from renewable sources, excluding hydroelectric (kWh)\tab Electricity production from renewable sources, excluding hydroelectric, includes geothermal, solar, tides, wind, biomass, and biofuels.\par
Renewable electricity output (% of total electricity output)\tab Renewable electricity is the share of electrity generated by renewable power plants in total electricity generated by all types of plants.\par
Electricity production from oil sources (% of total)\tab Sources of electricity refer to the inputs used to generate electricity. Oil refers to crude oil and petroleum products.\par
Electricity production from nuclear sources (% of total)\tab Sources of electricity refer to the inputs used to generate electricity. Nuclear power refers to electricity produced by nuclear power plants.\par
Electricity production from natural gas sources (% of total)\tab Sources of electricity refer to the inputs used to generate electricity. Gas refers to natural gas but excludes natural gas liquids.\par
Electricity production from hydroelectric sources (% of total)\tab Sources of electricity refer to the inputs used to generate electricity. Hydropower refers to electricity produced by hydroelectric power plants.\par
Electricity production from coal sources (% of total)\tab Sources of electricity refer to the inputs used to generate electricity. Coal refers to all coal and brown coal, both primary (including hard coal and lignite-brown coal) and derived fuels (including patent fuel, coke oven coke, gas coke, coke oven gas, and blast furnace gas). Peat is also included in this category.\par
Access to electricity (% of population)\tab Access to electricity is the percentage of population with access to electricity. Electrification data are collected from industry, national surveys and international sources.\par
Foreign direct investment, net inflows (% of GDP)\tab Foreign direct investment are the net inflows of investment to acquire a lasting management interest (10 percent or more of voting stock) in an enterprise operating in an economy other than that of the investor. It is the sum of equity capital, reinvestment of earnings, other long-term capital, and short-term capital as shown in the balance of payments. This series shows net inflows (new investment inflows less disinvestment) in the reporting economy from foreign investors, and is divided by GDP.\par
Cereal yield (kg per hectare)\tab Cereal yield, measured as kilograms per hectare of harvested land, includes wheat, rice, maize, barley, oats, rye, millet, sorghum, buckwheat, and mixed grains. Production data on cereals relate to crops harvested for dry grain only. Cereal crops harvested for hay or harvested green for food, feed, or silage and those used for grazing are excluded. The FAO allocates production data to the calendar year in which the bulk of the harvest took place. Most of a crop harvested near the end of a year will be used in the following year.\par
Average precipitation in depth (mm per year)\tab Average precipitation is the long-term average in depth (over space and time) of annual precipitation in the country. Precipitation is defined as any kind of water that falls from clouds as a liquid or a solid.\par
Agricultural irrigated land (% of total agricultural land)\tab Agricultural irrigated land refers to agricultural areas purposely provided with water, including land irrigated by controlled flooding.\par
Forest area (% of land area)\tab Forest area is land under natural or planted stands of trees of at least 5 meters in situ, whether productive or not, and excludes tree stands in agricultural production systems (for example, in fruit plantations and agroforestry systems) and trees in urban parks and gardens.\par
Forest area (sq. km)\tab Forest area is land under natural or planted stands of trees of at least 5 meters in situ, whether productive or not, and excludes tree stands in agricultural production systems (for example, in fruit plantations and agroforestry systems) and trees in urban parks and gardens.\par
Land area where elevation is below 5 meters (% of total land area)\tab Land area below 5m is the percentage of total land where the elevation is 5 meters or less.\par
Urban land area where elevation is below 5 meters (% of total land area)\tab Urban land area below 5m is the percentage of total land where the urban land elevation is 5 meters or less.\par
Urban land area where elevation is below 5 meters (sq. km)\tab Urban land area below 5m is the total urban land area in square kilometers where the elevation is 5 meters or less.\par
Rural land area where elevation is below 5 meters (% of total land area)\tab Rural land area below 5m is the percentage of total land where the rural land elevation is 5 meters or less.\par
Rural land area where elevation is below 5 meters (sq. km)\tab Rural land area below 5m is the total rural land area in square kilometers where the elevation is 5 meters or less.\par
Arable land (% of land area)\tab Arable land includes land defined by the FAO as land under temporary crops (double-cropped areas are counted once), temporary meadows for mowing or for pasture, land under market or kitchen gardens, and land temporarily fallow. Land abandoned as a result of shifting cultivation is excluded.\par
Agricultural land (% of land area)\tab Agricultural land refers to the share of land area that is arable, under permanent crops, and under permanent pastures. Arable land includes land defined by the FAO as land under temporary crops (double-cropped areas are counted once), temporary meadows for mowing or for pasture, land under market or kitchen gardens, and land temporarily fallow. Land abandoned as a result of shifting cultivation is excluded. Land under permanent crops is land cultivated with crops that occupy the land for long periods and need not be replanted after each harvest, such as cocoa, coffee, and rubber. This category includes land under flowering shrubs, fruit trees, nut trees, and vines, but excludes land under trees grown for wood or timber. Permanent pasture is land used for five or more years for forage, including natural and cultivated crops.\par
Agricultural land (sq. km)\tab Agricultural land refers to the share of land area that is arable, under permanent crops, and under permanent pastures. Arable land includes land defined by the FAO as land under temporary crops (double-cropped areas are counted once), temporary meadows for mowing or for pasture, land under market or kitchen gardens, and land temporarily fallow. Land abandoned as a result of shifting cultivation is excluded. Land under permanent crops is land cultivated with crops that occupy the land for long periods and need not be replanted after each harvest, such as cocoa, coffee, and rubber. This category includes land under flowering shrubs, fruit trees, nut trees, and vines, but excludes land under trees grown for wood or timber. Permanent pasture is land used for five or more years for forage, including natural and cultivated crops.\par
}
 